>> Mike North: So let's look at separating
variable declarations and initializations.
So, often, we need to do this.
One place I can think of
that I do this is if I have
a variable that takes on a different
value based on some conditions.
Maybe I have a case switch with five or
six case clauses, and
I wanna set the value of something based
on which of those clauses I fall into.
I'll probably declare that variable
outside of the switch statement,
and then assign it in each of the clauses.
So you end up with something like this,
but
we run into something that looks
a little bit troubling here.
We initialize it to 41 or reassign
it to 41 cuz it has no initializer.
And then it looks like we
can use a string as well.
And this gives us a clue as to what's
going on here, z takes on a type of any.
It's basically a wildcard.
Well, type systems, in general,
call this a top type.
Top types can take any value.
And it's not that these are evil.
They just play by the same rules
that JavaScript variables play by,
where we can flip-flop between strings,
and numbers, and arrays, and functions,
and it'll take on whatever you want.
So it's a point of weakness in your types.
Now, there are places where it's
totally valid to use an any, so
don't think that you're on a mission
to completely purge them from your app.
You just wanna make sure
that wherever you have it,
you actually want to allow
absolutely anything.
>> Mike North: So we could improve
the situation if we wanted to by,
in our variable declaration,
specifying a type.
And this is called a type annotation.
We're sort of attaching a little
extra piece of information
to the variable that says, look,
you don't have an initializer,
but I'm telling you number is
what you're designed to hold.
And now we get our desirable type error if
we try to put a string into this variable.
So this is something you
gotta watch out for, right?
If you have declarations where you
don't initialize the variable,
you're gonna wanna specify what
type this is designed to hold.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So in the official docs of
TypesScript, they generally do do that
type declaration, even if you're
initializing the variable with a value.
Is it recommended to do it that way or
no, or does it now matter?
>> Mike North: That's a great question.
I would say it's recommended to do that
way if you are writing docs because you
are being very descriptive
in documentation.
And what's more,
I'm sure the TypeScript team would love
to have the ability to show tool tips
in their docs where you could hover over
things and see what they are, right?
So like in this example up here,
describing that this is of type hello
world, like to write that out on text,
you might be verbose in doing so
for descriptive purposes.
But because we have an editor here,
we don't have to do that.
I err on the side of providing type
information in a few specific places.
Variables with initializers,
not one of those places because TypeScript
can always infer at that location.
Now, I'll be very clear to point out
spots where I always put type information
as a way of kind of setting deliberate
boundaries around pieces of code.
Basically, what I'm trying to do
when I provide type information
is provide an explicit contract
between two things, and
keep myself honest on both
sides of that contract.
But here,
it would sort of just be extra stuff.
But I would write my docs in
the same way to be clear.